feat: add guide for fixing npm 403 errors (#254)
midnightntwrk/midnight-docs: docs/develop/how-to/fix-package-repository-access-failures.mdx

---
title: Fix package repository access failures (403 errors)
description: Resolve 403 Forbidden errors when installing Midnight npm packages with three proven solutions.
sidebar_label: Fix Package Repository Issues
sidebar_position: 7
tags: [npm, installation, errors]
slug: /how-to/fix-package-repository-access-failures
toc_max_heading_level: 2
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";
import Step, { StepsProvider } from "@site/src/components/Step/Step";

# How to fix package repository access failures (403 errors)

Learn how to resolve 403 Forbidden errors when installing Midnight packages.

## Understanding the error

> When you try to install Midnight packages, you might see:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When installing Midnight packages, the following errors may appear:
```

```bash
npm install @midnight-ntwrk/compact-runtime

npm ERR! code E403
npm ERR! 403 Forbidden - GET https://registry.npmjs.org/@midnight-ntwrk/compact-runtime
npm ERR! 403 In most cases, you or one of your dependencies are requesting
npm ERR! 403 a package version that is forbidden by your security policy
```

## Solution 1: Reset npm registry

> The most common cause is npm pointing to the wrong registry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The most common cause is an npm configuration pointing to the wrong registry.
```

<StepsProvider>

<Step>

### Check current registry

```bash
npm config get registry
```

If it shows anything other than `https://registry.npmjs.org/`, that's your problem.

</Step>

<Step>

### Reset to default registry

```bash
npm config set registry https://registry.npmjs.org/
npm config delete @midnight-ntwrk:registry
npm cache clean --force
```

</Step>

<Step>

### Test installation

```bash
npm install @midnight-ntwrk/compact-runtime
```

**Verification**: Package installs successfully without errors.

</Step>

</StepsProvider>

## Solution 2: Fix VPN and proxy issues

Corporate VPNs and proxies often block npm access.

<StepsProvider>

<Step>

### Disable VPN temporarily

:::info Corporate Networks
If you're on a corporate network, disabling VPN might not be possible. In that case, proceed directly to proxy configuration.
:::

Disconnect from your VPN and test:

```bash
npm install @midnight-ntwrk/compact-runtime
```

> If this works, your VPN blocks npm access. Proceed to configure proxy settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the installation succeeds, VPN restrictions are blocking npm access. Configure proxy settings instead.
```

```

</Step>

<Step>

### Set defaults and clean project

:::caution Data Loss Warning
The following commands will delete your `node_modules` and `package-lock.json` files. Make sure you're in the correct project directory.
:::

```bash
# Set registry
npm config set registry https://registry.npmjs.org/

# Clean project
rm -rf node_modules package-lock.json
npm cache clean --force
```

</Step>

<Step>

### Test installation

```bash
npm install @midnight-ntwrk/compact-runtime
```

**Verification**: Package installs successfully.

</Step>

</StepsProvider>

## Platform-specific fixes

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="windows" label="Windows/WSL">

```bash
# Configure git line endings
git config --global core.autocrlf false

# Use WSL native paths (not /mnt/c/...)
cd /home/yourusername/project

# Clear Windows npm cache
rm -rf /mnt/c/Users/YourName/AppData/Roaming/npm-cache
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="linux" label="Linux">

```bash
# Configure npm without sudo
mkdir ~/.npm-global
npm config set prefix '~/.npm-global'

# Add to ~/.bashrc
export PATH=~/.npm-global/bin:$PATH
source ~/.bashrc
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="mac" label="macOS">

:::note macOS Security

> You may be prompted for your system password when running this command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The system may prompt for a password when running this command.
```

npm cache clean --force

# Clean project (only if package.json exists)
if [ -f "package.json" ]; then
    echo "📁 Cleaning project files..."
    rm -rf node_modules package-lock.json
else
    echo "⚠️  No package.json found - skipping project cleanup"
fi

# Test installation
echo "🧪 Testing package installation..."
npm install @midnight-ntwrk/compact-runtime

if [ $? -eq 0 ]; then
    echo "✅ Success! Midnight packages are accessible."
else
    echo "❌ Installation failed. Try disconnecting from VPN or checking firewall settings."
fi
```

Run the script:

```bash
chmod +x fix-midnight-npm.sh
./fix-midnight-npm.sh
```

## Verify the fix

Confirm everything works:

```bash
# Check registry
npm config get registry
# Should show: https://registry.npmjs.org/

# Test package access
npm view @midnight-ntwrk/compact-runtime
# Should show package information

# Verify installation
npm install @midnight-ntwrk/compact-runtime
# Should install successfully
```

## Still not working?

<details>
<summary><strong>Enable verbose logging</strong></summary>

See detailed error information:

```bash
npm install @midnight-ntwrk/compact-runtime --verbose
```

> Look for:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Common issues include:
```

- SSL certificate issues
- Proxy configuration problems
- DNS resolution failures

</details>

<details>
<summary><strong>Test direct connection</strong></summary>

Verify registry access:

```bash
curl https://registry.npmjs.org/@midnight-ntwrk/compact-runtime
```

If this fails, you have a network connectivity issue.

</details>

## Next steps

> After successful installation, verify your setup:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After installation completes successfully, verify the development environment:
```
